## Tunnel
BDT Tunnel is based on the naming object mechanism, it implements addressing, authentication, and encrypted communication for trusted devices, located at the bottom of the BDT protocol stack, provides connectivity and data transfer services for higher-level Stream, Datagram, and NDN. It connects two nodes through an undirected, full-duplex logical channel (which can be imagined as a virtual link). When there is no available Tunnel between two devices, a peer triggers the Connector logic of the Tunnel when it wants to send a BDT package to another peer.

Before establishing a trusted channel (Tunnel) with the target device, the following preparations are required: the local DeviceObject, the corresponding PrivateKey, and the target device's DeviceObject. The process of establishing a channel is as follows:
```
1. The client obtains the reliable and communicable address of the server based on the server's device object information, and sends a handshake package with an exchange key to the server. The handshake package is encrypted with the server's public key and signed with the client's private key.
2. The server decrypts the handshake package with its own private key, records the available key for the Tunnel, and can then use encrypted communication to reply with an ACK package.
3. The encrypted package uses a common structure. The header is a hash of the key and time offset, and the body is the encrypted original content.
```

## Route
BDT's trusted channel has the advantages of both parties having trusted identities, not relying on CA certificates for trusted design, fast encryption communication handshake, and encrypted transmission packets having no visible structure.

BDT currently runs on IP networks, Tunnel use TCP or UDP to send and receive data, through the trusted Body of the named object, routing can be implemented easily. The DeviceObject contains a set of available IP addresses for the device in its MutBody. Once this updated DeviceObject is disseminated, it can be linked to other devices. For devices whose bound IP addresses frequently change (dynamic devices), SuperNode is used to achieve connectivity. SuperNode has a fixed IP address and is saved in the MutBody of the dynamic device's DeviceObject. When a device goes online, it sends an online notification to the SuperNode, which will learn about the device's current dynamic IP address during the notification. When other devices connect to this dynamic device, they communicate with the SuperNode first, obtain the device's current dynamic IP address, and then communicate with the device.
