# Named data and data property rights

## Named data

1. Data name

Any Data is named with it's hash, any modification will change its name. This is a key design, it will ensure that the data you reference has not been tampered with.

2. Named Data

Any data named in this way is called `Named Data`.

3. Named Object

Data is divided into structured data and unstructured data, and structured data is called `Object`, Any `Object` named in this way is called `Named Object`.

4. Immutable and mutable

In principle, Object is immutable, if you need to change it, create a new object.

But for convenience, there is a design to modify it:

The content of `Object` is split into two parts:

-   Desc: immutable, the `ObjectId` is calculate with this part.the size is limmited at 64KBytes.
-   Body: mutable, It has nothing to do with `ObjectId`. We can update the body without modify the `ObjectId`. Therefore, developers must consider how to ensure that the Body is the version we need.

## ObjectId structure

1. Area

Every object should belong to a different `Area`, and accept the legal supervision of the corresponding `Area`.

-   country: 9bits
-   carrier: 4bits
-   city: 13bits
-   inner: 8bits // set by the creator.

2. ObjectType

Any Object requires a field that explicitly specifies its type, it's ObjectType.

All types are divided into 4 categories:

-   Standuard: It's the basic types defined in `cyfs-base`. Collected in the module `cyfs-base`.
-   Core: Objects with general semantics gradually formed during the development of CYFS. Collected in the module `cyfs-core`.
-   DecAppObject: Objects defined by an application developer to solve a specific problem in a specific application.
-   Data: Short immediate value object.

3. ObjectId structure

The name of a `Named Object` is `ObjectId`.

The main component of `ObjectId` is the `SHA256` of `ObjectDesc`, It also contains the type and area information.The total length is 32Bytes(256bits).

The structure is as follow:

```
ObjectId = Catgory(2bits) + DataContent(38bits) | CommonObjectId(38bits)

Catgory = Standuard(1) | Core(2) | DecAppObject(3) | Data(0)

if Catgory = Data(0) {
    DataContent = 0b_000000 + ImmediateValue(248bits)
} else {
    CommonObjectId = TypeDetail(4bits) + Area(34bits) + SHA256(`ObjectDesc`)[5..]
    TypeDetail = ObjectTypeCode | FieldFlags
    if Catgory = Standuard(1) {
        ObjectTypeCode = Device(1) | People(2) | Group(3) | AppGroup(5) | UnionAccount(6) | Chunk(7) | File(8) | Dir(9) | Diff(10) |
            ProofOfService(11) | Tx(12) | Action(13) | ObjectMap(14) | Contract(15)
    } else {
        FieldFlags = is_area_exist(1bit) + is_single_exist(1bit) + is_mult_key_exist(1bit) + is_owner_exist(1bit)
        is_area_exist = 1 | 0
        is_single_exist = 1 | 0
        is_mult_key_exist = 1 | 0
        is_owner_exist = 1 | 0
    }
    Area = country(9bits) + carrier(4bits) + city(13bits) + inner(8bits)
    * if the Area is not set the bits shoud be set to 0.
}
```

## Data property rights

1. Entitled object

An object is said to be `entitled object` if it can provide proof of the authenticity of another object.It can be the owner of an object to own it.A common method of proof is the signature, so, most `entitled object` contains a key-pair,for example:`People` and `Device`.but a `Group` contains many `People` as the `members`, Its proof requires the signature of a majority of members.

2. Owned object

An object is said to be `owned object` if it's created with a owner, most public object is `owned object`,Any object of external origin without owner and signature is untrusted.

`Owner` is contained in the `ObjectDesc`, it's immutable field, it's always the creator.

3. Right to profit

The `Owner` is immutable, but there are many tradable objects(for example: NFT). the updated property is the `Right to profit`, that usually occurs on the chain. The immutable `Owner` strongly protects the `copyright` of the objects.
