# CYFS permission system

Every one needs to protect secret information from being accessed, and `CYFS` is an open platform, and anyone has the opportunity to read the information stored on it. The best way to protect privacy is not to deal with other people, and sensitive information is not shown to others. **In `CYFS`, it is necessary to protect the `ObjectId` of sensitive information. Once someone else gets your `ObjectId`, it is possible to get the object content itself. This is very important, and it should be regarded as a principle for using `CYFS`.** Information can be leaked in many ways:

-   Send to others actively.
-   Malicious or poor quality `DECApp`s may deliver it on purpose or accidentally. Therefore, **We should try our best to install `DECApp` from a reliable source, and even read the source code and build `DECApp` by ourselves.**

It's too difficult to distinguish and prevent dangerous behaviors by users themselves. Therefore, `CYFS` provides a permission system to help users manage private data. The user can prohibit all `DECApp` except the system `DECApp` from accessing an object, and can also prohibit any other user from actively accessing an object. No one can read the object content without permissions even if the `ObjectId` is leaked. As a basic system, `CYFS` provides a flexible methods to config the permissions, which can only open partial access permissions for specific trusted users or `DECApp`; of course, the author cannot prevent `Object` from continuing to propagate after it has been displayed to others, It's also unpreventable in real world.

Let me emphasize again that users should try their best to abide by the confidentiality principle mentioned above. The system can only provide auxiliary management capabilities and cannot be used as the final guarantee.

I will describe the design of the `CYFS` permissions (hereafter referred to as `ACL`) system as follow.

## Default Permissions

If no permissions are configured for an `Object`, the default permissions are effective as follows:

-   If the `Owner` of `Object` is not itself, anyone has the full permissions.
-   If the request is from the current `Zone` or a friend `Zone`, and the source `DECApp` is same as the `DECApp` that constructs `Object`, the request will be granted.

    **It's important to add friends cautiously!**

-   Otherwise the request will be prevented.

## Level

Currently, `CYFS` already supports several ways to configure `ACL`:

-   Configured by the `req_path` field of the request:
    -   It can be used to prevent the requests to the service provided by `DECApp`.
    -   It can be used to restrict the access rights of the `RootState` subtree, and its lower-level subtrees also apply the same permission configuration, unless the lower-level subtrees are configured otherwise.
-   Configure objects that meet certain rules (`rmeta`).
-   Configure for a single object.

The rules are hit one by one in above order, and the permission configuration with the highest matching degree is found and applied. If you still remember the architectural design of `CyfsStack`, the `ACL` system is a `Processor` in it, and the implementation code is in `src\cyfs-stack\src\non_api\acl`.

## Static configuration as file

`ACL` can be statically configured by `app-manager` to read the `acl` configuration in the installation package when `DECApp` is installed. For the specific configuration method, refer to the `app_acl_config` field of the `cyfs.config.json` file.

The file is used to configure the permissions that the app needs and awarded to others by the app. This file will be read by `app-manager` when the app is installed, and the corresponding permissions will be registered with the system according to the configured values.

A complete permission configuration file is shown as follows:

```toml
[self]

[self.access]   // Grant permissions to your own data by path
// /test3 by each alone group
"/test3" = [{group = "OthersDec", access = "-wx"}, {group = "CurrentDevice", access = "---"}]
// complete string, set/clear each bits for each group
"/test2" = "rwxrwxrwx---rwx---"
"/test1" = "rwxrwxrwx---rwx--x"

[self.specified]    // Authorize your own data to the specified DECApp or user
"/test3" = {access = "--x", dec_id = "9tGpLNnDpa8deXEk2NaWGccEu4yFQ2DrTZJPLYLTxxxx"} // The specified  DECApp running on any zone can call the specified path.
"/test2" = {access = "--x", zone_category = "current-zone", dec_id = "9tGpLNnDpa8deXEk2NaWGccEu4yFQ2DrTZJPLYLTxxxx"} // The specified  DECApp running on the specified zone can call the specified path.
"/test1" = {access = "--x", zone = "5aSixgLwnWbmcDKwBtTBd7p9U4bmqwNU2C6h6SCvxxxx"} // Any DECApp running on the specified zone can call the specified path.

// Request authorization from a specified DECApp(DECID_A)
[DECID_A.specified]
// The `dec_id` field in SpecifiedGroup will never be set, otherwise the rule will be discarded.
"/test3" = {access = "--x"} // Apply for the permission to call the specified path.
"/test2" = {access = "--x", zone_category = "current-zone"} // Apply for the permission to call the specified path limited in the specified zone("current-zone").
"/test1" = {access = "--x", zone = "5aSixgLwnWbmcDKwBtTBd7p9U4bmqwNU2C6h6SCvxxxx"} // Apply for the permission to call the specified path limited in the specified zone("5aSixgLwnWbmcDKwBtTBd7p9U4bmqwNU2C6h6SCvxxxx").

[DECID_A.config]    // **None currently?**
```

1. This file is structured in `toml` format, where each section represents authorization in the same direction, and the section name rules are as follows:

    ${SectionName} = ${dec_id}[.access|specified|config]

-   ${dec_id}: the `DecAppId` that needs to provide permissions. If it is the current `DecAppId` (can be replaced by `self`), it means that the permission is open to others, otherwise, it means that the current `DECApp` needs the permissions from the specified `DECApp`.
-   access: A more general permission configuration method divided by group,
-   specified: The way to configure permissions for specific targets (`DECApp`, `Zone`, etc.), `key` is the request path, which can be the path of `RootState`, or the value of `req_path` in the request. It can manage permissions more granularly than `access`
-   config: **None?**

2. The content of each line is as follows:

    ${SectionRow} = ${key} = ${AccessString} | ${SpecifiedGroup}

-   ${key}: request path, which can be the path of `RootState`, or the value of `req_path` in the request.
-   `AccessString`: Indicates the complete permission corresponding to a path. Refer to the file system permission in linux. A set of specific permissions is represented by 3 bits. A total of 6 groups of 18 bits represent a complete permission, and each bit represents the authorization of the corresponding group.

    There are 3 permissions currently: Read/Write/Call:

    ```rust
    pub enum AccessPermission {
        Call = 0b001, // 用`x`表示
        Write = 0b010, // 用`w`表示
        Read = 0b100, // 用`r`表示
    }
    ```

    And there are 6 groups divided according to device and `DECApp`:

    ```rust
    pub enum AccessGroup {
        CurrentDevice = 0,
        CurrentZone = 3,
        FriendZone = 6,
        OthersZone = 9,

        OwnerDec = 12,
        OthersDec = 15,
    }
    ```

    Now, there are 2 methods to represent an `AccessString` in a configuration file:

    -   A complete string, use an 18-chats string to represent a complete permission, and use linux "rwx-" in the group to represent the permission of each bit. Groups can be separated by spaces or underscores
        > Example: Full permissions for `OwnerDec` in `CurrentDevice | CurrentZone`, `read | write` permissions for `OwnerDec` in `FriendZone`, and read permission for `OthersDec` in `OthersZone`. We can express it as "rwxrwxrw-r--rwxr--"; it is equivalent to "rwx rwx rw- r-- rwx r--" or "rwx_rwx_rw-\_r--\_rwx_r--".
    -   Grant permissions for specified groups separately based on the default permissions, expressed as an array formed as `{group, access}`, `group` is the enumeration name of `AccessGroup`, and `access` is a 3-chats "rwx-" string.
        > -   Default `AccessString` permission: "rwxrwxrwx---rwx"
        > -   Still take the above permissions as an example, expressed as `[{group = "FriendZone", access = "rw-"}, {group = "OthersZone", access = "r--"}, {group = "OthersDec" , access = "r--"}]`

-   `SpecifiedGroup`: The permissions of a specific `DECApp`, `Zone`, or `zone_category`, the difference from `AccessString` is that `AccessString` can only configure permissions for each group, and `SpecifiedGroup` can limit permissions into a specific `DECApp` or `Zone`.

    There are 4 fields:

    -   `access`: Permission configuration, which is a 3-chats "rwx-" string
    -   `zone`: `ZoneId` of the `Zone` which the permission is applied to. Here, it is usually filled with the `PeopleId` of `Zone`. You can also fill in a `DeviceId`, indicating that it is limited to a specific `Device`. We can remove the field to match any device.
    -   `zone_category`: The group of `zone` this permission will be applied to, if not filled, it means for any devices. Can take one of the following values:

        -   "current-device"
        -   "current-zone"
        -   "friend-zone"
        -   "other-zone"

        **I found that the zone_category is `words with hyphen`, it's different with it in `AccessGroup` for `AccessString`. can we use the same style?**

    -   `dec_id`: `DECApp` which this permission applies to, if not filled, it means for any `DECApp`s.

    Among the 4 fields, `access` is required, and `zone`, `zone_category`, and `dec_id` must be filled in at least one. The permission will be passed when all the three conditions of `zone`, `zone_category`, and `dec_id` are matched.

## Dynamic configuration interface

We can config the `ACL` statically by `app-manager` to read the `acl` configuration in the installation package when `DECApp` is installed. And we can also config it dynamically by calling `SharedCyfsStack` when the `DECApp` is running. The entry point of the dynamic configuration interface is:

```
let meta: GlobalStateMetaStub = SharedCyfsStack.root_state_meta_stub();
```

`GlobalStateMetaStub` provides different interfaces for various configuration methods. I will introduce as follow.

1. `req_path` constraints

-   add_access: Add a permission constraint on `req_path`, the core structure is designed as follows:

```rust
pub struct GlobalStatePathAccessItem {
    // GlobalState path, must end with /
    pub path: String,

    // Access value, it's a `AccessString` as uint32, or a SpecifiedGroup
    pub access: GlobalStatePathGroupAccess,
}
```

-   remove_access: Use `path` as `key` to delete the parameter specified permission.

2. `rmeta` constraints

-   add_object_meta: Add a matching rule, the core structure is designed as follows:

```rust
pub struct GlobalStateObjectMetaItem {
    // Object dynamic selector: `${key} ${operator} ${value}`
    pub selector: String,

    // Access value
    pub access: GlobalStatePathGroupAccess,

    // Object referer's depth, default is 1
    pub depth: Option<u8>,
}
```

We can use the following operators in `selector`:

    `==`, `!=`, `<=`, `>=`, `<`, `>`, `&&`, `||`, `&`, `^`, `|`, `!`.

The `key` and corresponding `value` are as follows:

| key                 | type   | value                          |
| ------------------- | ------ | ------------------------------ |
| obj_type_code       | u16    | ObjectTypeCode enum int values |
| object_category     | string | ObjectCategory enum values     |
| obj_type            | u16    | value of obj_type              |
| object.dec_id       | string | ObjectId                       |
| object.author       | string | ObjectId                       |
| object.owner        | string | ObjectId                       |
| object.create_time  | u64    | bucky time                     |
| object.update_time  | u64    | bucky time                     |
| object.expired_time | u64    | bucky time                     |
| insert_time         | u64    | bucky time                     |
| update_time         | u64    | bucky time                     |

-   remove_object_meta: Use `selector` as `key`, delete the permission specified by the parameter.

3. `object_id` constraints

-   Just specify the `access` parameter directly when `put_object` is called, if you want to change it, call `put_object` again.

## Principles of select

How to choose a method to config the permission, I suggest as follow:

-   You should write it clearly in the static configuration file if you want to grant permissions to the others (other `DECApp` or `Zone`); dynamic configuration in the program is more difficult to maintain. You can use `dynamic configuration` if the static configuration file can not do it.

-   You must write it in this configuration file and let `app-manager` register during installation, if you want to request permissions from other `DECApp`. There is no way to register dynamically in code.

-   You must use the `specified` section to request permissions from other `DECApp`, anything in the `access` field is ignored.

-   There is no way to request permissions from other `zone`.
