# Concurrent computing and throughput optimization

In the personal property rights environment, all calculations are completed on the user's personal server (`OOD`), it is still a centralized system, and we can optimize concurrency and throughput like the central server of `Web2`. However, personal servers are only used to process `self` information. and the workload in central server of `Web2` has been distributed actually to many personal servers of `Web3`, and the problems have been naturally alleviated.

Shared property rights are based on blockchain technology, and the process of blockchain consensus is serial; it is difficult to meet the high concurrency requirements in many `Web2` application scenarios.

We can use multiple chains to improve the concurrent processing capability of shared property rights. In other words, we can optimize the design to disperse information in multiple `rpath`.

For example: a `DAO` organization manages the information of all its users.

Its structure based on `RootState` should be as follows:

```
/--users
    |--user1
    |   |--...
    |--user2
    |   |--...
    |--...
    |--userN
```

All information of every user must be updated serially if there is only one chain. In fact, users are not related to each other in most time, we can update `B` without waiting for `A`.

Then, we try to start a chain for each user, manage the branch of each subpath with a consensus chain (`rpath`):

```
/users/user1
/users/user2
...
/users/userN
```

There is a small problem here. We also need to manage the user list jointly. In fact, the status of each user has reached a consensus, the `rpath` list maintained by this organization can express the current user list in most time. However, there is no strict consensus chain to maintain it, the `rpath` list in each node may be inconsistent for some abnormalities, and there is no historical record of updates. If your application is very sensitive to these issues, you need to design another `rpath`(/users/list) to maintain the user list, and you need to design carefully for the consistency between its content and the `rpath` list.

Now, does it feel familiar to server engineers in the `Web2` era? Yes, it is actually similar to the `divide-table` and `divide-database` that are often used in `Web2`, but the form has changed. I will not go into specific details for lack of experience.
