# Multiple encoding methods

All information based on `CYFS` needs to be encoded for storage, communication or computation, and we can classify encoding methods from different dimensions:

1. Classify according to the memory layout of each field in the encoded `Buffer`.
2. Classified according to the purpose of encoding `Buffer`.

## Classify according to the memory layout of each field in the encoded `Buffer`

According to the classification of memory layout, one of the following three encoding methods can be selected. Both `Protobuf` and `JSON` have their standard encoding specifications. I won’t go into details here. We only introduce the binary encoding format.

1. Binary

    Binary format encoding, usually used for standardized fixed encoding, the most space-saving, but not easy to expand.

    When binary encoding is selected, the type designer needs to fill all fields into a `Buffer` one by one in a certain order.

2. Protobuf

    Using `Protobuf` encoding, while taking into account certain space efficiency and scalability, this is the encoding method selected by most complex types.

    When using `Protobuf` encoding, the type designer only needs to assign each field of the object to the corresponding `Protobuf` type, and then use the `Protobuf` method to encode and decode. Compatibility processing needs to refer to the `Protobuf` specification.

    ** Note: The `Protobuf` specification we chose is `Proto3`, considering backward compatibility, the `Protobuf` version is unlikely to be upgraded. Of course, other versions can be selected for the type of new design, but different versions need to be carefully introduced. **

3. JSON

    Encoded in `JSON`, which is less space efficient but more readable.

    Because of its low space efficiency and the uncertainty of `JSON` encoding results (for example, we can use different characters for newlines and spaces), usually the `JSON` method is not selected to encode and decode information for storage and communication. `JSON` encoding usually appears in the scene of human-computer interaction.

** No matter which encoding method you choose, you must pay attention to the stability of the encoding when you use it for object encoding (for example: `Set` and `Map` should pay attention to the order of each element), otherwise the `ObjectId` obtained by calculating the same content multiple times may be different. **

## Classified by the purpose of encoding `Buffer`

-   Fully code

This approach is simply to fill all the information in the `Buffer` in a specific way. All types generally support this encoding.

-   Hash code

This method is usually used for the type that needs to calculate `Hash`. When it is necessary to calculate `Hash`, use this method to encode, store the result in a `Buffer`, and then use **`SHA256`** to pair This `Buffer` seeks the final result, and this result is usually called `HASH`** of this **type. This is an optional encoding method. If it is not clearly stated, the full encoding method is directly used to calculate `HASH`. \*\*

Regardless of the encoding based on the purpose, one of the aforementioned `binary stream` and `Protobuf` can be selected for encoding. The uncertainty of the `JSON` format determines that it is not suitable for `Hash code`.
